okay hi and welcome to the ipfs docs
ecosystem and developer Hugh axe working
group today is the March 20 20 so we're
just gonna use this time to quickly go
over various bits and bobs that are
happening within the the docs working
group there's been a few changes that
are coming up I guess we'll just dive
straight into so I'll just go ahead and
share my screen oh cool I'm using two
monitors today so I can now select which
monitor I want to use ok cool can you
guys see this document
yeah
so strap the bar I'm just gonna adjust
this nan okay our issue that we've got
going on so go IP a fast knob by five
release that has popped up so I
mentioned this mentioned this a couple
weeks ago so this release is coming out
there's a load of new features and fixes
they're going into it's really exciting
it's like they're one of the biggest go
releases that we've done since the last
release the combined May last year ago
so there's just some changes the
documentation was going into that
there's an issue with users behind an
nad that's an existing issue that goes
out through all ipfs nodes if you're sat
behind an nad so a network address
translator your your IPS node will often
not be able to communicate with the rest
of the network
so there's essentially a lot of work
going into making guides and telling
people how to get around that thing
without taking down the NA T because the
na T is like a a big super useful thing
and taking it down as a huge issue so
that's getting that's getting finalized
this week updating the branch ready for
release and merge into masters so the
rest of the documentation for guaca past
no point five is pretty much done it's
just being sort of tweaked now so that
when the time does come for the release
to go live
you can just mirja straight into master
without any any faffing around or
anything like that I just got an email
this morning saying that the release has
been pushed back further into April but
that really shouldn't have found this
group since most the documentation is
already done unless there are major
changes that come out as a result of
testing the release candidate which is
my next point on the list we need to
test or at least Canada know that's been
finalized to actually make sure that all
the stuff I've written is correct so the
only thing I've seen so far that may
affect documentation our compatibility
related issues so that would affect
probably 0.5 specific documentation but
I believe that the legal is that there
are fixing things to make things
compatible more so so that might result
in something maybe even being removed
from 0.5 right TBD yeah and removing
stuff isn't I don't mind removing stuff
is easier than throwing and stuff
earlier date which Jessica's laughing so
I feel like she's had to do that before
so yeah so that's been I spent a lot of
the focus of my time for the last couple
of weeks just sort of rushing around
dealing with various developers making
sure that why I'm writing is in fact the
truth and I'm not making setup so yeah
any questions about that specific point
there just do that dumb thing I've done
before where you just comment out all
the stuff for the features that didn't
make it in and then someone finds those
comments don't do that wow I'm pretty
sure that's how they found out various
things in little Easter eggs in
Microsoft products well I'll talk about
that later intentionally straight
encourage them okay yes I guess it was
at Easter because it was like spoilers
thrown it anyway
cool so next one q2 okay arts have been
drafted
none of those links points to the actual
okay are drops that's in a so honor
recommendations list points to the air
table the publicly viewable air table it
says all of the recommendation
that appear in place okay cool so that
links to here and then the stuff that
I'm assuming house like here we go so
the ipfs dogs
yes scroll all the way to the right and
you'll see you'll see some green and
yellow yeah yeah decision is what you
need
wait where's decision scroll arrow left
delegate the dues yours are in the dudes
or in the dues and nice nice sweet so
this is a excellent table for anyone
watching that wants to jump into it
Jessica's done an incredible amount of
work and it's without doubt the widest
table I've ever seen in existence yeah
sorry about that I'm actually dropping
another link that is only the things
that we've decided to take on for the
quarter okay from what are you doing
that I'll just jump over the issues that
we decided on so deprecated that legacy
so as you just saw that this would be
super exciting a lot of the feedback
we've had the vast majority feedback
we've had over the the new Darkseid has
been positive everyone prefers and way
prefers over the current exists things
like you go based so view press is just
generally by it's easy it's a work where
it's easier for us to write with and it
looked prettier so that's great so we'll
get that done probably within April at
some point
that's like a big p0 I want to get
sorted the next one so a web developers
introduction so this has been bribed
quite a lot recently within the
community and also internally within PL
that we don't have a series writers and
like web develops to kind of hit the
ground running we've got loads of stuff
that's very conceptual so people can
kind of come along and be like okay cool
that's what that's what this offers okay
cool that's how you know this loop each
piece that works but there's nothing
there's no real meat that people can get
their hands on
thank you for that type of there Jessica
so yeah so creating this series would be
just incredible sort of boost to drive
really sort of helping developers
actually get
get building something so the initial
tutorial of this is Oh doing written so
the basic this for us
that's exciting are you posting stuff
like that there's a few contributors out
there that I've spoken to the super
eager to jump on this as well mainly web
developers that really want to help our
building at core like a cool mini
project that we can then host on ipfs
I'm gonna see if Chris wearing wants to
help out for like just give his give his
ideas because he was very much involved
in the view first side of things so be
interesting to get his his point of view
on sort of single source of my firms are
gonna second source documentation on
static site generators and things like
that on how they can be implemented in
our next one single source documentation
this is this is likely going to be an
ongoing thing throughout the year and
it's probably just gonna be an ongoing
thing as repos develop their own
documentation but the main point of this
is that we've got ipfs documentation all
over the place so it's in loads of
different repos and haxor has been doing
an incredible job recently of finding
these mysterious repos and then kind of
closing them or archiving them while
bringing them around and then marking
issues in the docs repo to say hey we
probably need this documentation for
living dogs so the idea of single source
documentation is to bring every all of
that documentation into one place so it
lives in one place locally this is going
to involve a lot of managing and dealing
with the owners of those repos to be
like okay you still need to write
documentation you kind of need to number
one write it on our side or number two
write it on your side and bring it in
the loop once you finish it and then we
can kind of tie it all together the best
solution is probably just going to
depend on the particular repo owners I'm
gonna have to be we're gonna have to be
pretty flexible when it comes to this we
can't we're not gonna be able to say you
have to write in our repo just because I
love a lot of the tools and workflows
the repo owners use are probably going
to be very sort of unique and tied to
that particular repo so we're gonna have
to be flexible in terms of how to get
the documentation out so just just for a
context in the past the reason why we
have just Docs scattered all over
Rico's has just been because this thing
that's like evolved organically it
hasn't too much didn't because like
people are super attached to the idea of
having like their stuff in their repo
and I think right before right before
you joined on Johnny I think I was
having I was having sort of like big
conversations with everybody about like
hey it's there any reason why
particularly for guess go those
materials is there any reason that you
don't that you wouldn't want us to pull
those out of your rebound and put that
in mid Docs and the answer was
inevitably no with the possible
exception of API and say line
documentation which is its own kettle of
fish which we can kind of ignore for the
purposes of this discussion so I'm not I
don't think you're gonna be running into
a whole lot of like like objection to
this is a practice I think the reason
why you're seeing scattered is is just
because of our Ganic grips rather than
like people actually having a reason for
not wanting wanting their repose that's
good that makes that makes my job a bit
easier and yeah like you mentioned sort
of API stuff there's a lot of not a lot
there's some automation that happens but
that's just gonna be another hurdle
though I'll have to deal with later on
yeah I'm kind of I'm like my secret my
secret hope is that maybe that could be
like our focus for q3 like a big media
project 43 yeah yeah cuz I was yeah the
start of this year I was like oh you
have to do automation and they have
stuff in q2 and no it's gonna be so much
work it's gonna I think one of the
things I want to do is throughout this
quarter I need to sort of get buy-in
from those repo owners so they can kind
of country be a time to help out because
it's not something that we could do on
our own we need their expertise so we
can take offline the next time you and I
just some sort of strategic things that
I floated in the past but I think I
think it's just like I I don't know I
don't know about the both of you but I
would be I'm leaning a lot more towards
doing this slowly and intentionally in
the case of API in CLI Docs then
building something quickly that's only
moderately less awful we have right now
and the last phone this is a sorry album
for single source documentation yeah I
will I will know emerged all that stuff
I need to talk to actor about getting
some more information in but right now
as of this one thing I wanted to wrap up
before the end of the quarter was to get
everything that's in the IBM s / IPs
repo into more frequently edited
location so ipfs ipfs was basically just
there to point us to other locations
which I think was a sort of been the
intention for that repo for a while and
we're closed and hopefully that should
be done by the end of this week so
thanks for looking over that kind of it
cool yeah that'd be cool I didn't even
know like I found all these new repos I
didn't know existed exciting two weeks
and fortunately as a result of a lot of
things hopefully the ecosystem out of
being among them um
Hector's like the repo vendor right now
and it just hasn't been as long about
tidying things up and and I'm excited to
make them for as long as yeah Tony
he's got the unique about the skills of
you know he's passionate about it and he
also has the rights access to be able to
change these kind of things which is
always handy ok cool Donna quickly jump
onto the last one this is a p2 I think I
said it us so it's not as important as
the other three but I'd like to get it
done so it's automated docks this is an
automation in terms of a permutation
automation automation automation or
things like automatic grammar testing
automatic spell checking automatic
broken links checking checking the
images on broken things like that three
of these things are fairly easy to do so
spell testing broken links and broken
image references fairly easy to check
Kurama checking could be an issue purely
because I I've taken a quick look around
and I can't see any decent grammar
checkers that have already been built so
in in nodes or yon or any
like that so that could be trickier to
implement so that one might get pushed
off to another day until we have more
time to potentially build our own
internal grammar checker that we can
then open source and you know give to
the world which I think it'd be really
useful I'd really enjoy it and then we
can tie these automation cycles into
either like circle CI of whatever github
uses or there's something in View press
right now before you push through you
press it it runs through Lintz things
and check stuff so we could throw it
into that but again a log gets hashed on
the end of that okay oh yeah that's that
one again like I think it'd be really
handy but it is a p2 so it comes after
everything else felt on that I think
there are probably some very very common
first for grammar things that we can
automate without having to write in
giant grammar checker things that are
just sort of idiosyncratically common to
us like we have a bunch of writers who
whose native language is a language that
doesn't use like definite articles can
be super easily checked for just stuff
like that I think that there's probably
a small handful of stuff that could be
fairly simply hand coded and get us a
long way cool cool well if when it comes
around thirds are doing this point then
it might loop you in and cool so that's
okay as any many last questions or
thoughts first concerns about okay a
question about the meeting it's not no I
just remembered that this morning so
just well my coffee was brewing I threw
that in there but so on to Darwin yeah
so there's a new meantime sauce in the
last Monday of every month this is an
effort to number one kind of consolidate
everything and save people time a lot
there and also to keep it a bit more
asynchronous this meeting is useful but
kind of the ecosystem team and Deitrick
and particularly China for more good
more of a
synchronous workflow especially while
all day yesterday my my internet was
just non-existent so I was very easy it
was a Sunday but you know could happen
any day the week so yeah so that's
that's what's going on out there is also
going to be a place for Docs discussion
so it's gonna be a static place either
in the Disco's forum so just ghost all
built in within hubs discussion platform
I'm gonna get on that today I was hoping
together I'd done by today but other
things kind of cropped up so there will
be now a link within the docs repo
pointing to where the started discussion
is going on question yes when you do
that
can you please add a link out to that in
the widget that were embedding in the
bottom of every piece of content that's
like is this helpful
file a PR that that thing that repeat
appears on the bottom sweet stuff down
here um I actually put it under the was
this information oh yeah okay cool yeah
because once we deprecate once we
deprecated the legacy site we're gonna
get rid of this yeah yeah excellent yeah
I can throw that in there no problem
yeah I just need to figure out what this
I don't even know if github discussions
is still in beta discussion and I don't
I I'm kind of torn like we're trying
really really hard to push everybody to
just course as much as possible okay
I was might be inclined to just to just
sort of to do that like PRS I'm gonna
think yeah I would prefer to use the
Florence be honest because number one it
gives us a bit redundancy if I've ever
goes down for whatever reason the
discussion can still take place
and I also I'm also envisioning like a
bunch of scenarios where somebody's like
I want thing X in the docks because I'm
working on project Y that does things ed
and then that's really easy to branch
people often to like hey all these other
things all these other folks are talking
about things that over here so in terms
of like interconnection of the
discussion that's cool but yeah at some
point once it manifests it's something
like actual issues in the docks repo
then in your branch McMuffins also that
I said is part of the overall site
deprecation I professed docks v2 is
getting moved back right yeah switcher
ruing so that might be another call to
have it live in a discourse yeah good
point I'm so excited to have issues that
reflect the talks actually point to the
same repository that is the docks I okay
cool
so it looks like this is probably gonna
best place I had a Dietrich is making a
face though it is now not making a face
that he's not not making a face I'm I'm
on the fence about that all roads lead
to discourse I think it's good for some
types of discussions and it's not good
for all types of the only thing I wanted
to comment on was I think our
privatization is mostly right I think
that my deprecating the legacy site and
wanting the B to say it's a release is
p0 and if everything else there drops
fine like so in I would encourage a
harsh prioritization there with what
little time we're gonna have this
quarter you're gonna need a lot of time
for flexible response for things going
on outside of work so I would say just
take all anything that not be 0 so I
decide unless unless you just scratching
an itch and it's gonna make you feel
good and feel like you're you know mr.
forward but Toyota is that that one that
one bit more than anything I think
that'll give us the most
that'll give us the most flexible space
moving forward because the old
another thing that that's worried about
yeah no good point and a big wind
filling for the community and new
developers coming to the project as well
yeah and that is the only p0 listed here
the two middle one so web developer and
single source Docs p1 and then
ultimately dogs to p2
okay great yeah cool I'd say it'd be P
would everything else p5 nice I mean
tight technically right it's good to
have those berries there but then how
you feel free to let that or stuff drop
okay sweet I guess that's everything
anything else I know almost bring up oh
cool alright well thanks for joining
everyone speak to you again I guess on
the when is the last day last Monday of
April that'll be the 27th of April so
I'll put a link into the docs repo and
change the things there and then change
there you need to come as well oh yeah
see you then awesome thank you okay cool
yes
you